# The Problem of Increasing Human Energy

The book starts with making a metaphor between humankind
and physics. The first premise that Tesla strives to prove
is that humankind is one thing. He uses a very sweet metaphor
saying that the pain that he feels when a friend is suffering
is the same that he feels when he himself is suffering, hence
there is no clear boundary between him and his friend and
they are part of the same whole.

This reminds me a lot of oriental philosophy and Alan Watts
The Book, the idea that we are part of a whole and the individual
is just a construction/model of our minds trying to figure things out.

Once you understand that we are part of the whole he builds on top
of that to create the physics metaphor. Humankind is a whole object
that is moving (even tough we don't know the direction correctly)
and the individuals would be individual atoms, they can add or subtract
from the movement, but they can't stop being part of it.

On this idea you can use the equation **e=mc^2** to understand
why the book is about energy. The idea is to increase human energy
(he does not explain why we should even try to do that...perhaps because
it is in our nature).

# Increase Mass

The first thing that he explores is increasing energy by increasing
mass, or in other words to avoid the loss of life. In this sense
he talks a lot about technological advancements both on water
treatment and on food crops, which are basic to sustain human life.

He does not go a lot on the idea that more people does not mean
necessarily people that will add to a good direction for humanity,
but it is interesting to read about a time were clean water was a
hard problem to solve, even tough some places still suffer from it
big cities in general solved the problem in a level that people
don't even think about it anymore (even tough the sustainability
of the solutions can be questioned).

He also talks a lot about loss of lives in wars and the
uselessness of it. Avoiding war would be another force towards
increasing human energy.


# Increase Speed

When talking about increasing speed he elaborates on how there are
3 types of people/particles in the humankind object. There are people
that are part of the movement, people that contributes only with attrition
(inertia) and retard movement and people who are going in a different
direction. The worst people to him are the ones that just produce attrition
because they just resist change and ideas but don't have any of their own.
People who have different ideas and put energy on them can at least be
dissuaded and can contribute to better ideas. People who just resist change
are harder to dissuade (if possible at all).

Now there is the question of what would be the correct direction. His opinion
is that the correct direction is reason and science. Which is not a surprise, and
even tough it may not be perfect it seems better than the previous human
directions of mysticisms and prejudice. One of the forces that contribute
to this direction is education, for example, it would be another good investment
to improve the energy of humankind.


# Actual Energy

It makes sense to think that to increase human energy we need literal
ways to increase our capacity to transform energy sources in the environment
in energy that we can use to maintain automation that is essential to
human life (think on water purifiers for example).

He talks a lot about that, ways of extracting energy from the environment
that I was not even able to understand properly =/, usually by heat exchanges,
and the ability to transform coal into energy using cold techniques.

He elaborates a lot on extracting energy from waterfalls and even touch the
subject of extracting energy directly from the sun, but he won't go into
much details on the subject.

# Automatons

He also elaborates on a model of human beings as being just automatons responsing
from stimuli generated by sensory organs. Which makes perfectly sense.
Everything that we do is a response to some stimuli. If that make sense
it also makes perfectly sense to imagine an artificial construction of
this automaton. He elaborates on how he thinks to be extremely feasible
and inevitable the build of automatons that are very like human beings.

Having this mental model at the time that he lived was revolutionary
to say the least, and it impressed me greatly because the idea came from
how he modeled human beings, not from the internet seeing how powerful
GPUs are and etc =P.


# Future of Warfare

Another interesting thing is how he predicts that warfare would
evolve to be a show play of technological prowess instead of people
killing each other. It will evolve in a way to show who has superiority that
does not involve so much people actually dying in horrific situations.

This does make sense, even though we have plenty of killing in warfare
today a lot of what happened in the first two world wars would make no sense
today given the technological advancements. But of course that weapons of
mass destruction do make killing impersonal but also kills a lot of people.
But in an age of technological advancement, perhaps there will be other
ways of dominating that are more profitable and less dangerous than just
wiping out entires cities. So humankind will continue to fight, but on a
whole different arena.

It does seem to make some sense, but it is hard to be true if things
will happen that way, it would be another case of him being extremely visionary.
